An event tracking app can be used to track dates and times for upcoming events. This app will feature a database of tables to store event details and user logins and passwords. After the user logs into the app, they will come to the main screen which will feature a table that displays all the upcoming events. The user will be able to add and remove events, edit the time and information about a specific event, and notify the user on the day when an event is scheduled via SMS. When designing this app, there is a screen that has the user log in before being able to access the main screen. The main screen displays a table which contains the details of the current event. To make changes to an event, it is designed so when the user selects an event, it will bring up a screen of the event information where the user can make the changes needed. To create an event, I created a button, which will bring the user to a similar screen to enter the information for the event. The app will maintain a database of the username and password for each user to verify the user login information as well as a database that stores the event information.

When designing the application, I felt that the design should be very simple. I first hand drew a design that I felt would meet the needs of the user. I tried my best to implement it in Android Studio. By keeping the design simple, it is easier for the user to navigate and minimizes any confusion when using the app. All the buttons I felt were appropriately labeled and text boxes had titles to each. I also added an extra page instead of cluttering the main page so it is easier to look at.

When developing the application, I tried my best to get everything working. I realized this project had a lot of aspects to it, so I focused one page at a time. I used proper naming conventions so I was able to tell the difference when coding which button or text box was which. I had the most trouble with the database and getting the table to work correctly. I switched my focus to getting what I felt more comfortable done first, and go back to the database and table last.

When testing to ensure the code was functional, I would run the project in Android Studio on a virtual Android smartphone. I was able to test and walk through navigating the app as if I was a user and see what worked and what did not. This provess is important because I was able to see what was working and what wasn't and then go back into the code to fix any problems that occured.

In the app design process, I had researched two similar apps that were Event Planning apps. I then thought about what was needed for the users I was looking to reach and thought of different ways to have an event planner app that better suits the needs for my users. This required innovation when hand drawing the screen designs, and even further when designing the screens in Android Studio.

The specific component from the mobile app that I was particularly successful in demonstrating my knowledge, skills, and experience was on the log-in screen. I had added additional buttons in the login screen for forgotten password and new users.
